<ID:30927944>
Title: Radiogenomics of rectal adenocarcinoma in the era of precision medicine: A pilot study of associations between qualitative and quantitative MRI imaging features and genetic mutations.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To investigate associations between genetic mutations and qualitative as well as quantitative features on MRI in rectal adenocarcinoma at primary staging. METHODS: In this retrospective study, patients with rectal adenocarcinoma, genome sequencing, and pretreatment rectal MRI were included. Statistical analysis was performed to evaluate associations between qualitative features obtained from subjective evaluation of rectal MRI and gene mutations as well as between quantitative textural features and gene mutations. For the qualitative evaluation, Fisher's Exact test was used to analyze categorical associations and Wilcoxon Rank Sum test was used for continuous clinical variables. For the quantitative evaluation, we performed manual segmentation of T2-weighted images for radiomics-based quantitative image analysis. Thirty-four texture features consisting of first order intensity histogram-based features (n = 4), second order Haralick textures (n = 5), and Gabor-edge based Haralick textures were computed at two different orientations. Consensus clustering was performed with 34 computed texture features using the K-means algorithm with Euclidean distance between the texture features. The clusters resulting from the algorithm were then used to enumerate the prevalence of gene mutations in those clusters. RESULTS: In 65 patients, 45 genes were mutated in more than 3/65 patients (5%) and were included in the statistical analysis. Regarding qualitative imaging features, on univariate analysis, tumor location was significantly associated with APC (p = 0.032) and RASA1 mutation (p = 0.032); CRM status was significantly associated with ATM mutation (p = 0.021); and lymph node metastasis was significantly associated with BRCA2 (p = 0.046) mutation. However, these associations were not significant after adjusting for multiple comparisons. Regarding quantitative imaging features, Cluster C1 had tumors with higher mean Gabor edge intensity compared with cluster C2 (theta = 0 , p = 0.018; theta = 45 , p = 0.047; theta = 90 , p = 0.037; cluster C3 (theta = 0 , p = 0.18; theta = 45 , p = 0.1; theta = 90 , p = 0.052), and cluster C4 (theta = 0 , p = 0.016; theta = 45 , p = 0.033; theta = 90 , p = 0.014) suggesting that the cluster C1 had tumors with more distinct edges or heterogeneous appearance compared with other clusters. CONCLUSIONS: Although this preliminary study showed promising associations between quantitative features and genetic mutations, it did not show any correlation between qualitative features and genetic mutations. Further studies with larger sample size are warranted to validate our preliminary data.