<ID:31083180>
Title: Concurrent lymphoma and hemophilia B in a pediatric patient: A case report.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Lymphoma is the third most common cancer among children in the United States and Europe. Hemophilia is a congenital bleeding disorder characterized by deficiency of coagulation factor VIII or IX. Hemophilia B is a consequence of factor IX deficiency and has an incidence of 1 in 20,000 male births. A concurrence of these 2 uncommon diseases is rare except in patients infected with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). We report a case of a patient with both Burkitt lymphoma and hemophilia B; this is only such report in China since 1987. PATIENT CONCERNS: A 3-year-old boy was admitted to our hospital because of melena and jaundice for several days. His older brother had died due to hemophilia B and ventricular septal defect. The patient had not experienced any previous episodes of severe bleeding. Gradual abdominal distention was observed after admission; the patient's superficial lymph nodes were not enlarged. Results of blood routine and bone marrow examinations showed no abnormalities. He was diagnosed with sclerosing cholangitis, abdominal infection, and hepatitis. However, after treatment of reducing enzyme activity and eliminating jaundice, the patient's condition deteriorated. Hydrops abdominis was detected on abdominal ultrasonography. Tumor cells were found by pathological examination of peritoneal effusion. Both a c-myc gene translocation and a c-myc-IgH gene fusion were detected. DIAGNOSIS: Burkitt lymphoma and hemophilia B. INTERVENTIONS: The patient was transferred to the Pediatric Hematology Department of our hospital and treated with a modified B-NHL-BFM-95 protocol. During chemotherapy, platelet changes were monitored regularly and blood products were infused timely. OUTCOMES: The patient died of infection and bleeding after chemotherapy. CONCLUSION: Concurrent hemophilia and lymphoma are rare, especially in children. When encountering a patient with unexplained obstructive jaundice and massive ascites, the possibility of a tumor should be considered. Early diagnosis and adequate treatment of such tumor may improve prognosis.