<ID:31571071>
Title: Optimized immunohistochemical detection of estrogen receptor beta using two validated monoclonal antibodies confirms its expression in normal and malignant breast tissues.
Abstract: PURPOSE: Significant controversy exists regarding the expression patterns of estrogen receptor beta (ERbeta) in normal and diseased breast tissue. To address this issue, we have validated two ERbeta antibodies, optimized the IHC protocols for both antibodies and now report the expression patterns of ERbeta in normal and malignant breast tissues. METHODS: ERbeta antibody specificity was determined using western blot and IHC analysis. ERbeta protein expression patterns were assessed via IHC in normal breast tissue and invasive breast carcinoma. Further, we report the detailed protocol of the ERbeta IHC assay developed in our CAP/CLIA certified laboratory to provide a standardized method for future studies. RESULTS: We have confirmed the specificity of two independent ERbeta monoclonal antibodies, one that detects total (i.e., full length plus splice variants 2-5, which do not include the ligand binding domain) ERbeta protein (PPZ0506) and one that detects only the full-length form, which includes the ligand binding domain, of ERbeta (PPG5/10). Using these two antibodies, we demonstrate that ERbeta is highly expressed in normal human breast tissue as well as in 20-30% of invasive breast cancers. Further, these two antibodies exhibited similar staining patterns across multiple different tissues and were highly concordant with regard to determining ERbeta positivity in breast cancers. CONCLUSIONS: ERbeta protein was shown to be abundant in the majority of normal breast epithelial cells and is present in 20-30% of breast cancers. Use of these two antibodies, along with their standardized IHC protocols, provide a reference for future studies aimed at determining the utility of ERbeta as a prognostic and/or predictive biomarker in various tissues of benign or malignant states.