<ID:36738229>
Title: Molecular disparity of HLA-DPB1 is associated with the development of subsequent solid cancer after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation.
Abstract: An increased incidence of subsequent solid cancers (SSCs) has been reported in long-term survivors of allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT), and SSC is associated with inferior mortality and morbidity. Previous studies showed that the incidence of SSC is significantly higher in those who underwent allo-HSCT from HLA-mismatched donors, suggesting that persistent alloimmunity may predispose patients to SSCs. It was recently reported that, in a cohort of patients who received allo-HSCT from an unrelated donor matched at HLA-A, -B, -C, -DRB1/3/4/5, and -DQB1 loci, HLA-DPB1 alloimmunity determined by high mismatched eplets (MEs) and Predicted Indirectly Recognizable HLA Epitopes (PIRCHE) score (PS), was associated with relapse protection and increased risk of acute graft-versus-host disease (GVHD).
In the present study, the impact of HLA-DPB1 alloimmunity assessed by molecular mismatch algorithms on the development of SSCs in a cohort of 1514 patients who underwent allo-HSCT for hematologic malignancies was further investigated. ME load at the HLA-DPB1 locus was measured using the HLAMatchmaker module incorporated in HLA Fusion software, and the PS for mismatched HLA-DPB1 was calculated using the HSCT module from the PIRCHE online matching service.
In multivariable analysis after adjusting for baseline risk factors, higher ME, PS-I, and PS-II in the GVH direction, but not in the HVG direction, were associated with an increased risk of SSCs (ME: subdistribution hazard ratio [SHR] 1.58, p = .01; PS-I: SHR 1.59, p = .009; PS-II: SHR 1.71, p = .003). In contrast, nonpermissive HLA-DPB1 mismatches defined by the conventional T-cell epitope algorithm were not predictive of the risk of SSCs. Moreover, posttransplant cyclophosphamide-based GVHD prophylaxis was associated with a reduced risk of subsequent solid cancer (SHR 0.34, p = .021).
These results indicate for the first time that increased GVH alloreactivity could contribute to the development of SSCs in allo-HSCT survivors.