<ID:36857646>
Title: Rational design of nonlinear hybridization immunosensor chain reactions for simultaneous ultrasensitive detection of two tumor marker proteins.
Abstract: Sensitive biomarker detection techniques are beneficial for both disease diagnosis and postoperative examinations. The nonlinear hybridization chain reaction (NHCR) is widely used as an output signal amplification technique for biosensor platforms. A novel hairpin-free NHCR was developed in this study as a flow cytometric immunoassay to detect alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) and prostate specific antigen (PSA). First, the target AFP is captured on magnetic beads (MBs) that are modified with capture antibodies. Then, the prepared biotin-streptavidin-biotin (B-S-B) system, which links biotinylated detection antibodies and biotinylated trigger DNA together through the high affinity between biotin-streptavidin interaction, is added to label the target AFP, forming a sandwich complex with three trigger DNA chains. Each trigger DNA chain grows a dendritic DNA nanostructure following a nonlinear hybridization chain reaction. As the substrate flue chains are labeled with fluorophores, the self-assembly process of dendritic DNA is accompanied by the continuous release of fluorophores. Dendrites with strong fluorescence then form on the surface of MBs. Finally, the target AFP is quantified by analyzing the fluorescent MBs using flow cytometry. The proposed immunoassay has a high selectivity along with isothermal, enzyme-free, and exponential amplification efficiency. It shows a limit of detection (LOD) of 1.74 pg mL<sup>-1</sup>. The proposed biosensor was also successfully used to quantitatively detect AFP in serum samples. It may be utilized to detect multiple tumor markers simultaneously by changing the size of MBs and antibody-antigen pairs. Most tumor markers are only related to tumor diagnosis but without specificity, so the combined detection of multiple tumor markers can improve the accuracy of early tumor diagnoses.