<ID:36927529>
Title: Macrophage STING signaling promotes NK cell to suppress colorectal cancer liver metastasis via 4-1BBL/4-1BB co-stimulation.
Abstract: Macrophage innate immune response plays an important role in tumorigenesis. However, the role and mechanism of macrophage STING signaling in modulating tumor microenvironment to suppress tumor growth at secondary sites remains largely unclear.
STING expression was assessed in liver samples from patients with colorectal cancer (CRC) liver metastasis. Global or myeloid stimulator of interferon gene (STING)-deficient mice, myeloid NOD-like receptor protein 3 (NLRP3)-deficient mice, and wild-type (WT) mice were subjected to a mouse model of CRC liver metastasis by intrasplenic injection of murine colon carcinoma cells (MC38). Liver non-parenchymal cells including macrophages and natural killer (NK) cells were isolated for flow cytometry analysis. Bone marrow-derived macrophages pretreated with MC38 were co-cultured with splenic NK cells for in vitro studies.
Significant activation of STING signaling were detected in adjacent and tumor tissues and intrahepatic macrophages. Global or myeloid STING-deficient mice had exacerbated CRC liver metastasis and shorten survival, with decreased intrahepatic infiltration and impaired antitumor function of NK cells. Depletion of NK cells in WT animals increased their metastatic burden, while no significant effects were observed in myeloid STING-deficient mice. STING activation contributed to the secretion of interleukin (IL)-18 and IL-1β by macrophages, which optimized antitumor activity of NK cells by promoting the expression of 4-1BBL in macrophages and 4-1BB in NK cells, respectively. Moreover, MC38 treatment activated macrophage NLRP3 signaling, which was inhibited by STING depletion. Myeloid NLRP3 deficiency increased tumor burden and suppressed activation of NK cells. NLRP3 activation by its agonist effectively suppressed CRC liver metastasis in myeloid SITNG-deficient mice.
We demonstrated that STING signaling promoted NLRP3-mediated IL-18 and IL-1β production of macrophages to optimize the antitumor function of NK cells via the co-stimulation signaling of 4-1BBL/4-1BB.