<ID:37394163>
Title: An improved recombinase polymerase amplification assay for the visual detection of Staphylococcus epidermidis with lateral flow strips.
Abstract: Staphylococcus epidermidis is an opportunistic pathogenic microorganism that is an important cause of cross-infection in hospitals. The development of rapid and effective detection techniques is important for its control. The application of traditional identification and PCR-based methods is limited by their requirements for both laboratory instrumentation and trained personnel. To overcome this issue, we developed a fast detection approach for S. epidermidis that was based on recombinase polymerase amplification (RPA) and lateral flow strips (LFS). First, five pairs of primers were designed for molecular diagnosis using the sesB gene as the target, and were screened for their amplification performance and the formation of primer dimers. Specific probes were then designed based on the best primer pairs screened, which were susceptible to primer-dependent artifacts and generated false-positive signals when used for LFS detection. This weakness of the LFS assay was overcome by modifying the sequences of the primers and probes. The efficacy of these measures was rigorously tested, and improved the RPA-LFS system. Standardized systems completed the amplification process within 25 min at a constant temperature of 37°C, followed by visualization of the LFS within 3 min. The approach was very sensitive (with a detection limit of 8.91 CFU/μL), with very good interspecies specificity. In the analysis of clinical samples, the approach produced results consistent with PCR and 97.78% consistent with the culture-biochemical method, with a kappa index of 0.938. Our method was rapid, accurate, and less dependent on equipment and trained personnel than traditional methods, and provided information for the timely development of rational antimicrobial treatment plans. It has high potential utility in clinical settings, particularly in resource-constrained locations.