<ID:37801091>
Title: Symptomatic intraventricular choroid plexus cysts. Illustrative case and systematic review.
Abstract: Although choroid plexus cysts are a frequent incidental neuroimaging finding, symptomatic ones are rare-a series of more than five cases are hard to find. In the absence of high-volume studies, there are no generally accepted algorithms for diagnosis and treatment for this pathology. Proposed surgical techniques include microsurgical excision or fenestration and endoscopic excision or fenestration with or without additional shunting. No definitive conclusions exist about the superiority of a certain technique. Here, we introduce an illustrative case of a patient with a symptomatic choroid plexus cyst in the trigone of the lateral ventricle and a systematic review of 65 additional published cases with the aim of identifying epidemiological features, variants of localization of the cysts, their symptoms, persistence of concomitant obstructive hydrocephalus, and treatment modalities. A PRISMA-based literature search was performed on the PubMed, MEDLINE, Scopus, and Web of Knowledge databases. We include in the review case reports and case series of symptomatic choroid plexus cysts with full texts or valuable abstracts available online in English and published by April 2023. All abstracts of retrieved studies were assessed by two independent researchers to avoid bias. Only descriptive statistics were used for the presentation of the results. A total of 48 studies (39 case reports and 9 case series) with 65 depicted cases met the eligibility criteria. The review showed a slight predominance of choroid plexus cysts in men. The most common localizations of cysts were the trigone and the body of the lateral ventricle. Obstructive hydrocephalus is often present in patients with choroid plexus cysts. The most common symptoms of cysts were signs of increased ICP: headaches and vomiting. The main treatment approaches for symptomatic choroid plexus cysts were microsurgical excision, microsurgical fenestration, endoscopic fenestration, and total endoscopic excision. The tendency has been noted to shift from microsurgical to endoscopic procedures over the past two decades. Some data on the classification of cysts of the central nervous system and the underlying mechanisms of the pathogenesis of choroid plexus cysts are also presented.Although symptomatic cases of choroid plexus cysts are rare, by summarizing currently available data, one could clarify their common features and identify a preferable treatment modality.